# Simple-C-program-to-compute-a-UPC-check-digit
Compute the universal product code (UPC) check digit with C
The Universal Product Code (UPC) is a series of black bars or lines that help identify a product. this symbol is encoded with a series of numbers known as the Global Trade Item Number (GTIN), which together a GTIN and a UPC are the two elements that make up the complete barcode. The UPC is scanned by special optical scanners called barcode readers at the point of sale, along with these lines and digits. they make up the barcode and allow systems to properly identify items look up their price and automatically transmit information about the product to a computer.
A proper UPC, along with additional information such as batch or lot numbers, allows a company to recall damaged items accurately and easily from a retailer, distributor, or warehouse before they reach the public without a valid UPC, tracking and selling your inventory through the supply chain is not possible. UPC allows proper sales forecasting for your product as you can accurately calculate current inventory, products sold, and demand.
The UPC is printed on most items sold in supermarkets and other mass retailing outlets all over the United States of America and Canada. Each barcode represents a twelve-digit number, usually printed underneath the bars. For example, the following barcode [0,13800,15173,5] comes from a manufacturer: Stouffer's, category: Food, Beverages & Tobacco, and a package of Stouffer's French Bread Pepperoni Pizza.
